All right, so before we proceed, I would like to talk about a little topic here of the immolated Android
emulator.
Now this has been something that developers Android developers specifically have talked about for as
long as Android development was a thing.
Meaning that developers have always had to deal with how slow the emulator will is in many cases now.
But of course, things have changed throughout the years because computers have gotten faster, and
the Android Studio also has gotten better and so forth.
But I feel like regardless, you at some point will run into issues or run into problems with using
the Android emulator.
OK.
And it may be that you're not part of this group of people who have problem with Android and later.
But at some point your computer may crash because the Android emulator may take up a lot of memory.
Also, I have to say that if you are getting serious about Android development, at some point you probably
have to invest on an actual Android phone even if you don't already have an Android phone.
OK, I want to say using Android emulator is a great thing, is easy, quick when everything is working
fine.
And so but nothing beats the actual device, the actual physical device that you can actually plug in
into your computer and start testing.
In this video, I want to share with you, how can you connect or how to set up a device for a development
in actual Android device?
Now, as you know, Android as an operating system and mobile operating system runs on a variety of
devices, meaning there's different sizes, different manufacturers and so forth.
That is the beauty of Android, but it gives us a little bit more headaches as developers because now
we have to figure out, OK, now we have to deal with different devices, sizes and manufacturers and
so forth.
So what I'm going to show you here is going to help you depending on what kind of device you have.
And this will also give you a way of troubleshooting when you're trying to set up your device and things
are not quite working.
OK.
All right.
So the first thing I want to show you is that I actually have my device set up and is running, as you
see here.
So this is actually mirroring my actual device.
In fact, as you see here, I'm touching my device and you can see that it's working also there on the
screen.
And in fact, I can put this down and start touching, sorry, using my mouse here and I can do the
same thing, right?
So this is really nice, but it's actually running on my Pixel four device as we speak.
In fact, if I go ahead and click running, in fact, let's just open here.
There's this Pixel four API throw that is this device and this emulator in mind is this one.
So when I run this?
And in a second, you can see the app is running here, so I can go ahead using my phone now.
So tapping and he can see that things are working.
OK, so this is an actual an actual device that I'm I have installed the app and I'm testing it.
The idea here, of course, is so that you have your own device.
You don't have to have this software.
Of course, I'm just using this because I want to show you as I run my app on my device so you can actually
see it because I'm recording this video, but you have to have this, but you could have, of course,
your own device as you develop.
You can then run the app that we testing on to the device, which which should be faster and easier
to do.
So what do we need to do is to go to developer that Android dot com?
This is, of course, that's the holy grail of everything, really.
And if you search, if you go straight to this link, of course you're going to end up here, but you
can always search, debug your app and or how to set up a device for development.
And so most likely, you will end up somewhere here.
OK, you can go for the inside of the overview first to see what's it all about?
And there's a lot of information, and I'm not going to go through all of this because it's something
that you can do yourself.
But let's go to configure developer options.
Click here.
This will give you, of course, all the information you need most important how to enable developer
options and use debugging.
OK.
And gives you exactly the tools.
It gives exactly all these steps, depending on different phones, and they talk about API levels and
so forth.
So that because again, Android so diverse, there may be some differences in the user interface or
in the way we access the settings like developer options and so forth.
OK.
As you see here says, for instance, that to enable developers options because sometimes you won't
have this evolve options as in the settings right to enable it, you have to go to build number and
tap seven times.
And he says you can find this option in one of the following locations, depending on your device.
So depending on your device level, Android level, API level, that is, you will go in and have to
find in different places.
But usually settings go to systems about phone and build number and tap it seven times and then you
should be good, and then you should be able to get to developer options.
OK.
And these developer options, you have to sell it to on, as you see here.
In order for you to be able to then be able to see or at least the Android Studio, be able to recognize
that you indeed have a phone that is connected and ready to be used as a debug phone.
I could see that is also in this course.
I make solely use my own phone, which you should probably end up seeing something like this, but in
your case, you may opt to using the emulator.
That's fine.
It doesn't really matter.
I just want to give you the options so you understand that there are two ways to actually run your run
ended by your apps using your own device, which I actually recommend because it's just better.